# Movie Recommendation System by Using Movie Posters
Recommendation systems are methods for data extraction based on the past activities of users in a system. Depending on the likes and dislikes of users or customers, these systems recommend items to users with the hope that the user will buy this recommended item. Movie recommendation systems are a subset of the recommendation systems. These systems use ratings of the users for the movies as their input and output a list of recommended movies. The most commonly used approach to this problem is collaborative filtering. This algorithm is being used by many popular streaming companies like Netflix and Amazon in order to attract their customers. In this project, we examine the phenomenon of movie recommendation. We will try to create a movie recommendation system using a collaborative filtering algorithm. However, we will update this algorithm by using visual features extracted from movies with the aim of getting similarities between movies.

## Methodology
We believe that movie posters contain necessary information for a movie whether it can be suggested or not. If you check posters, you are going to see that there is actually a similarity between the movies that are related to each other. For example, if you look at the posters of movie series, you are going to see that the placements of each poster share similarity between each other. If we somehow can detect these similarities, then we can use them to create a better recommendation system.

To do this task, we used deep convolutional neural network VGG16 to extract CNN features. CNN features are basically the content of the image; mainly explaining what the image is. It is a pre-trained model on Image-Net which is a database used for image classification. But in this task, we actually do not want to do classification but we only want to extract the features of the image. Because of this we remove the output layer which is designed for image classification. This technique is widely used to extract image features (Chen, et al. 2019).

## References

- Amer-Yahia, Sihem et al. 2009. “Group Recommendation: Semantics and Efficiency.” Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 2(1): 754–65. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.14778/1687627.1687713 (March 15, 2021).
- Chen, Xiaojie et al. 2019. “Exploiting Aesthetic Features in Visual Contents for Movie Recommendation.” IEEE Access 7: 49813–21. https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8688388/ (March 15, 2021).
- Diao, Qiming et al. 2014. “Jointly Modeling Aspects, Ratings and Sentiments for Movie Jointly Modeling Aspects, Ratings and Sentiments for Movie Recommendation (JMARS) Recommendation (JMARS) Citation Citation Jointly Modeling Aspects, Ratings and Sentiments for Movie Recommendation (JMARS).” : 193–202. http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2623330.2623758. (March 15, 2021).
- Ekstrand, Michael D., F. Maxwell Harper, Martijn C. Willemsen, and Joseph A. Konstan. 2014. “User Perception of Differences in Recommender Algorithms.” In RecSys 2014 - Proceedings of the 8th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, New York, New York, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, Inc, 161–68. http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2645710.2645737 (March 15, 2021).
- Said, Alan, Shlomo Berkovsky, and Ernesto W. De Luca. 2011. “Group Recommendation in Context.” In ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, New York, New York, USA: ACM Press, 2–4. http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2096112.2096113 (March 15, 2021).
- Vo, Thanh Vinh, and Harold Soh. 2018. “Generation Meets Recommendation: Proposing Novel Items for Groups of Users.” In RecSys 2018 - 12th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, Inc, 145–53. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3240323.3240357 (March 15, 2021).
